OSPF- Down, Attempt, INIT,2-way,Exstart,Exchange,Loading,Full

Neighbor adjacencies will progress through several states, including:
Down – indicates that no Hellos have been heard from the neighboring
router.
Init – indicates a Hello packet has been heard from the neighbor, but twoway
communication has not yet been initialized.
2-Way – indicates that bidirectional communication has been established.
Recall that Hello packets contain a neighbor field. Thus, communication is
considered 2-Way once a router sees its own Router ID in its neighbor’s
Hello Packet. Designated and Backup Designated Routers are elected at
this stage.
ExStart – indicates that the routers are preparing to share link state
information. Master/slave relationships are formed between routers to
determine who will begin the exchange.
Exchange – indicates that the routers are exchanging Database Descriptors
(DBDs). DBDs contain a description of the router’s Topology Database. A
router will examine a neighbor’s DBD to determine if it has information to
share.
Loading – indicates the routers are finally exchanging Link State
Advertisements, containing information about all links connected to each
router. Essentially, routers are sharing their topology tables with each other.
Full – indicates that the routers are fully synchronized. The topology table of
all routers in the area should now be identical. Depending on the “role” of
the neighbor, the state may appear as:
• Full/DR – indicating that the neighbor is a Designated Router (DR)
• Full/BDR – indicating that the neighbor is a Backup Designated
Router (BDR)
• Full/DROther – indicating that the neighbor is neither the DR or
BDR
On a multi-access network, OSPF routers will only form Full adjacencies
with DRs and BDRs. Non-DRs and non-BDRs will still form adjacencies,
but will remain in a 2-Way State. This is normal OSPF behavior. 
---------
broadcast /non broadcast multi-access will have DR/BR

LSA's are contained within LSU'sample
LSA TYPE 1 – OSPF ROUTER LSA
LSA TYPE 2 – OSPF NETWORK LSA
LSA TYPE 3 – OSPF SUMMARY LSA
LSA TYPE 4 – OSPF ASBR SUMMARY LSA
LSA TYPE 5 – OSPF ASBR EXTERNAL LSA
LSA TYPE 7 – OSPF NOT SO STUBBY AREA (NSSA) EXTERNAL LSA E1, E2
Two types of external LSA:
E1: Consider the total cost up to the external destination
E2: Considers only the cost of the outgoing interface to the external destination 
An ASBR’s routing table is generated a summary route pointing to Null0, that’s used to drop the packets in case that there’s not a more specific route in ASBR routing table, thus avoiding routing loops.
A router has a separate LS database for each area to which it belongs
All routers must accept packets sent to AllSPFRouters (224.0.0.5)
All DR and BDR routers must accept packetssent to AllDRouters (224.0.0.6) 
----
Stubby area- no External routes
Totaly stubby area- No ABR routes
Not so stubby areas - direct connected to external and send Type 7 and converted to type 5
----
• A neighbor table – contains a list of all neighboring routers.
• A topology table – contains a list of all possible routes to all known
networks within an area.
• A routing table – contains the best route for each known network. ---
----------
matching to be neighbours
Area ID
• Area Type (stub, NSSA, etc.)
• Prefix
• Subnet Mask
• Hello Interval
• Dead Interval
• Network Type (broadcast, point-to-point, etc.)
• Authentication 
---------------
Hello -discover maintain  neighbours– packet type 1
Database description..summarize database contents – packet type 2
Link-state request – packet type 3
Link-state update – packet type 4
Link-state acknowledgement – packet type 5 